In this file:

* Common Mistakes
* Debugging
* Upgrading
* Removal/Uninstallation
* More Info

Common Mistakes
---------------

IMPORTANT: most applications need KDEDIR as the directory where KDE is
installed.  Please set this in your login file.

If XPM support wasn't configured, it may be that configure has no idea
where your XPM libraries are.  If so, set XPM_INCLUDE and XPM_LDFLAGS to
the paths where configure should look for XPM.  But if you haven't
installed XPM or it didn't come with your system, that's no problem.  You
will only miss a few screensavers.  The same thing applies with OPENGL
support.  Here you have to set GL_INCLUDE and GL_LDFLAGS.

If configure claims Qt cannot be found, have a look at http://www.troll.no
to get a copy of Qt, version 1.3 or newer.

Debugging
---------

You can use --enable-debug with the configure script, if you want to have
debug code in your KDE apps and libs.  I recommend to do this, since this
is alpha software and this makes debugging things a whole lot easier.

Upgrading
---------

If you have an older kdebase installed, just copy all your .k*rc files
from $HOME to $HOME/.kde/config. In the other case, default values are
used for most apps.

Removal/Uninstallation
----------------------

You can use 'make uninstall' if you want to remove the kde from the dirs.
This feature has not been tested completely.

More Info
---------

If your system does not have XPM installed, you may obtain it from
ftp://avahi.inria.fr/pub/xpm, or you may find it in
ftp://ftp.freebsd.org/pub/FreeBSD/distfiles

If your system supports PAM (Plugable Authentication Modules), please see
the README.pam file in this directory for more information about using KDE
with PAM.

Have a look at the individual subdirectories, if you would like to find
out more about a specific application included in kdebase.

Please direct any bug reports to our bug list maintainer 
David McCanney <9504506m@student.gla.ac.uk>.  Or visit
http://buglist.kde.org.

If you have problems compiling and installing this package, please contact
Stephan Kulow <coolo@kde.org>.

General KDE discussions should go to the KDE mailing list (kde@kde.org).
