				kSirc

** Developed by: 
	Boren  (C++ code)
	Isando (constant feedback, ideas, and support)
        Flip_1 (comments and general help)
	KernAk (web pages)
	Innocent1 (feedback and comments)
	#linux (testing and patience)

if I missed anyone, let me know!

** To Run

No libs need, simply run it.
                 
** To Compile the Source:

KDE Support
KDE Libraries and 
the QT Libraries

** Platforms so-far tested with gcc/g++ 2.7.x:
	Linux
	FreeBSD/OpenBSD
	SunOS
	Solaris
	
** Locations:
KSirc ftp site:        ftp://ftp.ksirc.org/
Official KDE Homepage: http://www.kde.org
QT Libaries:           http://www.troll.no


** Credit where credit it due:

KSirc uses sirc for all the irc server interaction, scripting etc.
The excellent sirc client is orabidoo <roger.espel.llima@pobox.com>.
For more information on sirc have a look at it's home page:

http://www.eleves.ens.fr:8080/home/espel/sirc.html 

** Why KSirc:

There's already a lot of good irc clients, so why write another one?
In my opinion X lacked a flexible and script-able irc client.  While
"xterm -e irc" works well, it doesn't take advantage of a graphical
environment.  On the other hand, most X irc clients focus on the
graphical part and never really develop the scripting side very well.
KSirc tries to solve these two problems.  It uses sirc and as such
provides VERY powerful perl scripting while providing the X interface.

** Why should I use KSirc?

1. You're looking for a powerful, and reasonably easy to use irc
client that works well under X, support multiple windows, filter
rules, colours, etc.

2. ircII has a pretty poor scripting language.  Sirc's perl scripting
is flexible and reasonably secure.  Combined with #1 gives you an X
irc client with good scripting.

** Do I need KDE and the QT libraries installed?!?!?

No.

Static binary versions are installed and work fine.  If you want to
compile the source though, you'll need QT and KDE installed.


** Why use QT/KDE instead of GTK or other toolkits?

At the time KSirc started QT/KDE provided the best possible graphical
interface and programming environment in my opinion.  GTK while
potentially a useful toolkit in the future doesn't provide a stable
working environment at the moment.  Plus I don't like what GTK looks
like.

I once started writing a client in Xforms, but it wasn't flexible
enough and turned me against most GUI C programming.


** Filters in under 25 words:

Filters allow you to modify, mangle and redirect irc messages.  You
can send messages which mean a certain format or style into different
windows (for oper's filter out NickServ kill's etc)

README.filters contains a detailed explanation and examples on how to
use filters.g
